In just a few moments, you're going to
see my Toastmaster speech, which was
focused on understanding your
communication style. Now, this was from
level two, speech number one of the
motivational strategies path within the
Toastmasters Pathways program. And in
order to showcase that, I started by
telling a personal story. And then I did
an aounter report, a fictitious aounter
report, four different ways as to
illustrate these four different styles
of communication. Now, if you're just
about to take on the understanding your
communication style speech and project
within Toastmasters, check out this
video that is popping up right now
because it is the video I did before
this one to talk about how I was
thinking about this speech and how to
prepare accurately. So, let's take a
look at my speech and then we'll talk
about what I did well and areas I could
improve on future speeches. Do you
communicate differently depending on
this person that you're speaking to?
About five years ago at my job in Remax,
I had two leaders within the company.
The first, his name was Derek, and Derek
was a similar role to me, but in a more
senior position. The second was Roy, and
Roy was my direct boss. And depending if
I was speaking to Roy or Derek, they
were two very different conversations.
If I wanted to speak with Derek and I
walked into his office unannounced, I
would notice he'd be a little bit
uncomfortable with his body language.
And then if I sat down at his desk and
started telling stories and asking
impromptu questions,
that body language would get a little
bit more uncomfortable.
What I learned with Derek is the best
approach was to schedule a meeting in
advance, to come prepared with charts
and spreadsheets, and to do my research
before asking him a particular question.
And then Derek was great. He would
provide great advice. When I went to
meet with Roy, it was a much different
experience. I would have a stop at the
coffee room first off and make sure I
had a full cup of coffee. And then at
any point I would walk into his office
and I'd say, "Roy, do you have a minute
to chat?" And every time without fail,
he'd say, "Come on in." With his radiant
personality, he would invite me in. And
I would sit down and we would chat for
minimum an hour. And we may come to a
solution for the original question or we
may not, but we would tell stories and I
would get value out of that
conversation.
Roy is a great person. Derek is a great
person, but they are two very different
communicators.
Madam Toastmaster, fellow Toast Masters
here in person at the Royal Ann and
Peter joining us digitally on Zoom. This
speech within the motivational
strategies path is really interesting
because it breaks down four different
styles of communication that we all fall
into. The first is direct. The second is
initiating. The third is analytical and
the fourth is supporting. And what I
thought would be fun is to create four
fictitious a counter reports and see if
all of you can guess which particular
style I am doing based on the word
alone.
Example number one.
Charlene, today you had two ums, but
that is such an improvement. I remember
when you first came to the club, there's
a few more filler words. So, way to go.
Really well done, Laura. You had a like
and a so, but the so might have actually
fit within the sentence. That might have
been my mistake. Really well done as
well. Any ideas? Direct, initiating,
analytical, or supportive. Which would
that be? Shout it out.
>> Supportive.
>> Supportive. That's right. Supportive
communicators are kind. They're
empathetic. They're warm. They're
inviting. But what we find with all of
these communication styles is that they
have their pros, but they also have
their weaknesses. And the weakness for
supportive communicators is that they
can be a little bit indecisive,
sometimes wishy-washy.
Okay. Example number two.
The purpose of the all counter report is
for us to document all of the correct
uses and times that we've injected
filler words. Siobhan, you had two ums,
three H's, one like, one double start.
Paul W, you had two ums, one double
start, but then I realized that that was
actually intentional as part of your
speech, so I reduced it for accuracy and
an uh
>> analytical. These people are precise.
They are factbased. They know the
information. The challenge is
sometimes they're not the most
interesting to listen to.
Vocal variety is something that they
might struggle with. And so their
challenge is to inject that creativity
as well. Example number three.
Today I am the a counter and this is a
role that's really benefited me over the
years because when I joined Toast
Masters I would use um a lot and this
role helped me reduce those particular
filler words. And so first off Moya you
had I'll be honest your speech was so
good I forgot I was doing the role. I
think you had a couple ums in there, but
it was really, really good. Fahad, you
just delivered a speech. I think there
was only like one or two H's in there.
You are very good when it comes to
filler words. Is that direct or
initiating?
>> Initiating. These are the creative
people, the spontaneous, the funloving.
They often come up with speeches that
inject a lot of stories and are
enjoyable to listen to. Their challenge
is the listening skills. often it's
about themselves and they don't often
think of what the particular other
person is saying. Okay, example number
four. We already know what it's going to
be, but here's an example of what that
could look like.
Keith, you had two ums and two H's
today, and you want to get that sorted
out because these filler words, they add
distractions and it's tough for the
audience to focus when that happens.
Pablo, usually you're flawless, but
today you had three likes and two SOSs.
You don't want to fall into that habit.
You want to continually improve. So, be
careful there. This is, of course,
direct. These direct communicators, they
are to the point. They give us the
information. They are competitive.
They're often lone wolves.
But the downside is that it can come
across as a little bit harsh to hear
that information from the direct
communicators.
What's important to remember is that
none of these communication styles is
necessarily better than one or the
other. They are simply different. But I
think the key is to remember who we're
talking to. Are we talking to the Roy of
the world? Are we talking to the Dereks
of the world? because our presentation
style should probably be different if
we're talking to a room full of life
coaches versus a room full of
accountants. So, I hope this breakdown
helps you in your future speeches when
thinking about the different type of
communication skills that we all have.
Adam,
there you have it. That was the
presentation. And overall, I think I'm
always going to be my biggest critic.
There were a few areas where I thought I
stumbled a little bit. The intro I took
me a moment to gain traction and get my
energy and then when I started to get
into the actual awe counter report, I
felt like I had a little bit more flow
going on. But the evaluator I had I was
really appreciative of. And she is a
distinguished toastmaster. She is
somebody who is a legend in our club.
Just a really really great toastmaster.
and she gave me a tough evaluation, a
challenging evaluation. What I loved is
that she prefaced that to the club. She
said, "I'm going to evaluate Wade really
hard because I want him to be able to
improve and give him these gifts." And
there were a couple areas where she
thought I could improve. For example,
when I was talking about Derek and Roy,
the two different leaders, she said that
I could have used more body language to
really showcase the difference between a
rigid Derek and then Roy being relaxed,
come on in, laidback, and his vibrant
personality that he has. And I thought
that was a really good idea. The other
thing she challenged me on is she said
the two concepts were a bit disjointed.
I had the story about Derek and Roy and
then I got into the four different
elements of speaking through the a
counter report and she said she would
have liked to see a smoother transition
between those two ideas or perhaps
scrap one of them and just focus on the
other which again was really really good
advice. And this was a speech that I
struggled with the timing as I was
practicing. it was almost always going
over into 8 n minutes and I think I
rushed the pace a little bit knowing
that I might be tight for time and on
some of the comments I received from
other club members they also felt as
though the ending came together a little
bit abruptly. So this is really good
feedback for me because it's a constant
reminder. I'm always practicing my
public speaking, but sometimes you focus
on one particular thing and then you
forget some of the other fundamentals. I
have to say I'm really enjoying this
journey of going through pathways. For
those of you who have followed a few of
my videos, I've been in Toastmasters for
about a decade and I've really delayed
putting on the Pathways education.
That's why I'm This is my first time
taking on Pathways, just getting into
level two now. But it's a reminder of
why we sign up for speeches. It forces
us to be creative and to come up with
concepts and to keep that part of our
brain going. And then there's that
challenge once every few weeks taking on
a speech in front of a room of full of
people. It's that regular challenge that
we're forced to embrace. And so if you
are a toastmaster like I was who shows
up to meetings but doesn't really take
on the educational curriculum, I would
challenge you to start doing that. Start
signing up for more speeches or perhaps
you want to pick up the pace of how
you're going through pathways. I think
that there are a lot of benefits to
doing so and I'm excited for all of you
who are along for the ride. I will
continue to publish, showcase, videotape
my speeches as I go through this and
hopefully you can learn from the video I
produced beforehand talking about what
I'm thinking about from the speech and
then videos like this that show the
actual example of the speech. One note I
like to end on in many of my videos is
the fact that the subscriber to
non-subscriber viewer rate on my videos
is insane. 90% of you watching this have
not subscribed to my channel. And I want
to challenge you. If you are serious
about Toast Masters or public speaking
and improving your communication skills,
subscribe to my channel. This is free
education. And I really think these
videos can help level you up. Plus, if
you like me, if you think I'm an okay
guy, this is the best way to support my
channel is through your subscriptions,
turning on notifications, and letting
others know. Perhaps it's other
Toastmaster members in your club. I know
many of you already do that. Thank you
so much. And if you are just taking on
this understanding your communication
style speech, I mentioned this earlier
in the video. You're going to want to
check out this video popping up right
now. Thank you all for the support and I
can't wait to catch you on the next